We already know two specific string methods.
The index method, which allows us to identify at which index a given character is found.
And the format method we saw yesterday which allows us to format combine strings.
In this lecture, we are going to quickly learn six more methods that are very simple to use and they
are upper for uppercase, lower for lowercase split, which is used to transform an entire string into
a list of words or set of characters join which does the opposite of split.
It takes a list of strings and joins them together by adding the separators of your choice.
This is very useful and we'll see it in a minute.
Find which is very similar to index but with a small difference we'll see pretty soon and replace this
one allows us to replace parts of a string.
These are just six of more than 30 methods that string has.
It doesn't make sense to go through them one by one in these video lectures, since some of them are
too specific or too infrequently used.
But you'll find a list in the PDF notes next to this lecture containing all of the methods for strings
that exist in Python.
In case you want to have it handy, be sure to download it so you have it available if you need it for
right now, let's go to Pi Charm and see how to apply these six methods in our code.
And now we're in the code ready to see how these methods work.
First, we're going to create the conditions in which we're going to work.
We're going to do it with a variable that is also going to be called text.
And this time it is going to say we are going to learn six methods today.
This is just an example.
I missed the quotation marks here, so okay, otherwise it will not work.
And we're also going to create a variable called result and this variable is going to store the variable
text now, but we will change that later.
Now we're going to print result to see on the screen what we're doing.
Let's execute this and we see our text.
We are going to learn six methods today.
Excellent.
What we will now do is to begin to apply methods and we're going to do it here inside the variable result.
First, we're going to know a method that allows to transform all the characters of a string into capital
letters.
And this is none other than the upper method, which we can see if we press the dot and see the entire
list of methods, I write the letter you to shrink it and here I see upper and we choose it.
As you can see, the methods are written with a pair of brackets that open and close, and this warns
the system that we are working with a method.
Many times these brackets are not going to have anything inside.
It means that the method does not need more information to work.
As in this case in which I click and here I have we're going to learn six methods today, all in capital
letters, but you'll also see some methods that you may need to enter, some parameters that allow you
to determine how this method will work.
Still, when you don't need to give the parameters, the brackets should be written always.
Actually, if I take out the brackets here and we want to run this, as you see, it doesn't throw me
an error.
It's simply telling me now that what result has is a built in method which is upper, and it belongs
to the string object as this location.
It just gives us some information, but it doesn't execute the method.
It just tells us what the results contains.
If I put the brackets again.
Now it does.
Another thing we can do if given the case that we don't want, for example, to transform all the text
into uppercase inside result, we can determine, as we saw in the previous lecture, a particular index.
So inside the braces I will put the example the index for, and I'm telling it that the results will
be equal to only the index four, which in this case is the letter R, but in uppercase.
And as you can see now, only the R is printed in a capital letter.
Well, also, if there is a method that makes everything in uppercase, there must be another method
to make everything in lowercase.
This method is called lower.
We execute it and here we have that.
We're going to learn six methods today without the capital letter of the beginning, all in lowercase.
So let's move on to another method.
The split method split allows us to split our strings in several pieces and it is going to save all
of them inside a list.
So if I execute this now, what I'm going to have is that the result is equal to a list.
What is a list?
We're going to see list later on in a couple of lectures.
But in the meantime, I want you to know that lists are a collection of items and we store its contents
inside square brackets.
And here we have then a list composed by all the words that are in my text.
Now it's separated in as many elements as words have my sentence.
We will see later how we work with lists.
Don't worry about that now, but you can understand this for now.
I also want you to know that what split does is to separate the elements using the empty spaces as a
separate.
This is why it does by default.
But if I pass a different separator as a parameter between its parentheses, for example, I put here
the letter O.
Now my list will be composed by all the elements that are formed taking O as a separator.
Then the first group is we are G because the next letter should be an O.
And that's a separator.
The next group says I and g t.
The next one learn six math, then DST and finally day.
So that's how you determine what the split criteria is going to be and how groups will be created.
Let's learn one more method.
We've already seen three.
Now we're going to look at the fourth one, which is join and join is the opposite of split.
We're going to create something different down here.
We're going to make a couple of variables.
The first one is going to have the text learning.
The second variable is going to have the text python.
And the third variable will be is.
And the last variable is going to have.
Amazing.
As you can see, I chose four words that can form a sentence, and now I'm going to create a fifth variable,
the variable E, to which I will simply generate the space that I want to be used to join all these
words that would be separated by space.
So E equals a space which is also a string, and I put my join method to it.
What is join going to do here?
Let's open the parenthesis and it's going to take all the elements that we include inside the parentheses,
and it's going to separate them with a space.
Of course, the elements that must go inside the parentheses have to be from a list.
Since you don't know how to handle lists yet, I'm going to build a list from the elements we have here.
We simply open the square brackets.
As I told you, the lists go in square brackets, and here we're going to put A, B, C and D, which
are the four elements that I have here.
Here.
I'm creating a list with four elements and I'm joining them with a space between each one of them.
Now, I asked Python to print eight and we run it.
The first line doesn't matter.
It's from before.
But here you can see learning python is amazing.
This has been formed from print E, which has here the union of spaces with the words If I change this
space to something else, for example, hyphen and print it well.
Learning hyphen python hyphen is hyphen amazing.
So it's very simple thing to do.
Still any questions you have?
Remember, you can ask your questions here in this lecture and we'll answer them as soon as possible.
Let's get this out of the way.
And now we're going to look at two more methods.
The penultimate one is find.
And this is not going to be new to you at all because it's exactly the same as the index method, which
we've already seen in the previous lecture.
Well, fine does that.
It looks for a certain character inside my string.
So here I put, for example, the letter S, and it's going to look for it and it's going to find it
inside the index.
22 You may be saying, okay, y then we have find when we also have index.
Well, the only difference between these methods is this when fine doesn't find the substring in your
string as for example.
Q That does not exist in my string and execute it.
Instead of giving me an error as index would do, it just gives me the value minus one.
So when Fine does not find what you're looking for in your text, it will turn minus one.
And finally, we have one more method, which is the replace method.
As you can imagine, this method serves to take a fragment of your text and replace it with another
one.
This method, of course, needs parameters.
In fact, it needs to parameters.
The first is the text that I want to remove, let's say six.
Then the comma to go to the second argument, which is the case is going to be a lot of.
And if I run this, it's going to tell us that we are going to learn a lot of methods today, which
is also true.
And let's suppose now that I want to replace all the E letters by X letters.
If I do this, I'm going to get this impossible to pronounce sentence.
Well, this has been all about the most frequently used methods that we're going to use throughout the
course.
Remember that there are many more methods.
Some are too specific.
We will hardly use them, but some may be useful to you.
I recommend you download the notes that come with this lecture so you can have them handy and know everything
about strings.
Now please do the exercises below and we'll move on to the next lecture to continue growing and learning.